Tool/vonk 3875 document auth (#172)
FirelyTeam/firely-docs-firely-server: tools/firely-auth/firely-auth-settings.rst

Settings files and variables
----------------------------

Just like Firely Server itself, Firely Auth features a hierarchy of settings files and veriables. From lowest to highest priority:

- ``appsettings.default.json`` - This comes with the binaries (and in the Docker container) and contains sensible defaults for most settings. 
  You can change this file, but it might accidentally be overwritten upon a new release. Instead, put your settings in one of the following places.
- ``appsettings.instance.json`` - This file is meant to override settings for this instance of Firely Auth. You can create this file yourself by copying (parts of) ``appsettings.default.json``.
- Environment variables with the prefix ``FIRELY_AUTH_`` - Use environment variables to more easily configure settings from CI/CD pipelines, secure vaults etc.

Unsure how to name your variables? This works the same as with :ref:`configure_envvar`.

Sections
--------

.. _firely_auth_settings_license:

License
^^^^^^^

Use the License settings to set the location to the license file. A relative path is evaluated relative to the executable ``Firely.IdentityServer.Core.exe``.

> You can use the same licensefile that came with Firely Server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use the same license file that came with Firely Server.
```

In that documentation you can also read how to use the ``Https`` setting instead of ``HttpsFromPem`` to use a ``.pfx`` file for your SSL certificate.

.. _firely_auth_settings_server:

Firely Server
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Firely Auth hands out SMART on FHIR access tokens to access resources on Firely Server. 
To make Firely Server known to Firely Auth, fill in the ``FhirServerConfig``:

.. code-block:: json

   "FhirServerConfig": {
      "Name": "Firely Server",
      "FHIR_BASE_URL": "http://localhost:4080"
   },

- ``Name``: This name serves two purposes:

  - It can be added to the token as the value of the ``aud`` (audience) claim, if the client requests so. 
    To have it accepted by Firely Server, set its ``SmartAuthorizationOptions:Audience`` setting to the same value.
    (This currently only works for the Authorization Code flow.)
  - It correlates with the clients allowed to access the token introspection endpoint (see below).
    Therefore it should match the value of ``TokenIntrospectionConfig:TokenIntrospectionResources:Name``

> - ``FHIR_BASE_URL``: A token can have a claim in the form of ``patient=<base>/Patient/123``, to define the compartment the client is restricted to.

Reviewer 2: It is also the url against which the aud parameter in a token request is checked

Author: The 'aud' parameter is set to the Name, right? So `Firely Server`, not this url?

Reviewer 2: AudienceAuthorizeRequestValidator checks this against url (for the EHR launch workflow)

Reviewer 2: See http://hl7.org/fhir/smart-app-launch/app-launch.html#request-4 for how it's different compared to the "aud" claim

Author: Done. Also included example of how to add `aud` parameter to authorize request.

      }
  },

- ``<ClientId>`` should match one of the clients defined in ``ClientRegistrationConfig``.
- The value can be one of ``Jwt`` or ``Reference``. ``Jwt`` means that this client will get self-contained Json Web Tokens.
  ``Reference`` means that this client will get reference tokens, that refer to the actual token kept in memory by Firely Auth.
  For more background see :term:`reference token`.

E.g. ``"MySmartApp": "Reference"`` 

.. _firely_auth_settings_keymanagement:

Key management
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. code-block:: json

  "KeyManagementConfig": {
      "RSA_Config": {
          //"RSA_JWK": "<JSON Web Key>", // JSON Web Key of type RSA
          "SupportedAlgorithms": [
              "RS256",
              "RS384",
              "RS512"
          ]
      },
      "EC_Config": {
          //"JWK_ES256": "<JSON Web Key>", // JSON Web Key of type EC with crv P-256
          //"JWK_ES384": "<JSON Web Key>", // JSON Web Key of type EC with crv P-384
          //"JWK_ES512": "<JSON Web Key>", // JSON Web Key of type EC with crv P-512
          "SupportedAlgorithms": [
              "ES256",
              "ES384",
              "ES512"
          ]
      }
  }

> Firely Auth can work with multiple signature keys, used to sign access tokens. 

Reviewer: Is it only `access tokens`, not all tokens (`refresh`, `id`)?

Author: Indeed. Changed it to "access and other tokens"

For more background on JSON Web Keys see `RFC 7517 <see https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7517>`_.

.. _firely_auth_settings_tokenintro:

Token introspection
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

When using a :term:`reference token`, Firely Server must verify the token with Firely Auth.
Not just any system can ask for inspection though, therefore we list the systems that can with a name and a secret.

.. code-block:: json

  "TokenIntrospectionConfig": {
      "TokenIntrospectionResources": [{
          "Name": "Firely Server",
          "Secret": "<generate some hard to hack secret>"
      }]
  },

This configuration is only needed if at least one :term:`client` is configured to use reference tokens, see :ref:`firely_auth_settings_tokentypes`.

.. _firely_auth_settings_userstore:

User store
^^^^^^^^^^

A :term:`user` must be able to authenticate to Firely Auth before granting permissions to a :term:`client`. 
Therefore we register the users with Firely Auth. Firely Auth supports two types of stores: In memory and SQL Server.

For the InMemory store, the users and their passwords are listed in plain text in this configuration. This is useful for testing, but not recommended for production use.

> The SqlServer store stores the users and their encrypted passwords in a MS SQL Server database. 

Reviewer 2: It could be useful to mention here that the fhirUser claims can be configured here as well.

Author: That means that in line 221, under `InMemory - Claims` not only `patient` is valid, but also `fhirUser`. I would need to experiment with that again to document it correctly.

Reviewer 2: Correct

Author: Processed change from `Claims` to `AdditionalClaims` and added `fhirUser`.
Added note to SqlServer store that `patient` and `fhirUser` claims can be added there as well.

- ``Enabled``: true / false: simple switch to enable or disable a client (instead of removing it from the list)
- ``RequireConsent``: true / false: when true, Firely Auth will show the user a page for consent to granting the requested scopes to the client, otherwise all requested and valid scopes will be granted automatically.
- ``RedirectUris``: array of strings: url(s) on which Firely Auth will send the authorization code and access token. The client can specify one of the preregistered urls for a specific request.
- ``ClientSecrets``: secrets can be of type ``SharedSecret`` or ``JWK``. You can have multiple of each, so you can accept two secrets for a short period of time to support key rotation and an update window for the client

  - SharedSecret: ``{"SecretType": "SharedSecret", "Secret": "<a secret string shared with the client>"}`` - this can be used for either :term:`client credentials` or :term:`authorization code flow`, but only with a :term:`confidential client`.
  - JWK: ``{"SecretType": "JWK", "SecretUrl": "<JWKS url>"}`` - where the JWKS url hosts a JSON Web Key Set that can be retrieved by Firely Auth, see also :term:`JWK`.

>   - JWK: ``{"SecretType": "JWK", "Secret": "<JWK>"}`` - where JWK is the contents of a :term:``JWK``. Use this if the client cannot host a url with a JWKS. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - JWK: ``{"SecretType": "JWK", "Secret": "<JWK>"}`` - where JWK is the contents of a :term:`JWK`. Use this if the client cannot host a url with a JWKS. 
```

Otherwise,
<img width="627" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/873290/202433928-35ee229a-cdb0-49f8-8f67-96df714c6203.png">
